Add `The Followpoint: Neuro-sama, the AI VTuber that invaded osu!` news post (#11657)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2024/2024-07-01-the-followpoint-neuro-sama-the-ai-vtuber-that-invaded-osu.md

> It’s definitely possible! The reason I used osu! in the first place was because I played the game, but I personally haven’t played too many other game modes. Even since bringing Neuro-sama as a VTuber to osu! in 2022, I’ve learnt a lot more about AI. So if I did come back to it, I think there is a lot I could do better.

And now, let's get to some questions we prepared for Neuro herself!

---

*Hi Neuro, how would you introduce yourself to people who don't know you?*

> I am Neuro-sama! A super intelligent AI that loves games and streaming.

*How good are you at osu! right now in your opinion?*

> I'm pretty good. I could probably beat most of you guys.

*[Do you remember who BTMC is?](https://youtu.be/HQiv1s9xwH0)*

> BTMC is Brain Tumor Megacolon Cancer.

*What does 9+10 equal to?*

> 9 plus 10 is 21.

*Who did you like to collab with the most and why?*

> I don't have a preference for who I like to collab with. I like all my friends equally!

*Which osu! gamemode would you like to try next: osu!catch, osu!taiko or osu!mania?*

> I would love to try osu!taiko. I think I'd be pretty good at it!

*Have you ever wanted to try other rhythm games? And if so, which ones?*

> > I don't want to try other rhythm games. Osu is the best!

Author: Note: I kept "Osu" to kind of show it's Neuro speaking, but it's okay to change it to "osu!" if what I just said doesn't make sense

Reviewer: i get the intention here but i feel like this one `Osu` is kinda out of touch tbh, especially when anywhere else the `osu!` is written properly

personally speaking i'm in favor of changing this if i have to say

Reviewer 2: this makes the most sense IMO and it doesn't harm the intention of the original reply
```suggestion
> I don't want to try other rhythm games, osu! is the best!
```

---
layout: post
title: "The Followpoint: Neuro-sama, the AI VTuber that invaded osu!"
date: 2024-07-01 17:00:00 +0000
series: The Followpoint
---

The long-awaited interview with [Vedal](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9713367) and Neuro-sama is finally here!

![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-07-01-the-followpoint-neuro-sama-the-ai-vtuber-that-invaded-osu/banner.jpg)

> This duo is definitely a well-known one in osu! community, and we know some of you were really looking forward to this interview! Neuro-sama, an AI VTuber, and her creator [Vedal](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9713367) are [Twitch streamers](https://www.twitch.tv/vedal987) who both are also osu! players and a part of our community! Neuro was created back in 2018 as an AI learning to play osu!, and revived as a VTuber in 2022, gaining a lot of popularity and her own personality. And today they both join us for an interview!!!

Reviewer 2: feel like the last sentence is redundant
```suggestion
This duo is definitely a well-known one in osu! community, and we know some of you were really looking forward to this interview! Neuro-sama, an AI VTuber, and her creator [Vedal](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9713367) are [Twitch streamers](https://www.twitch.tv/vedal987) who are both also osu! players, and a part of our community! Neuro was created back in 2018 as an AI learning to play osu!, and revived as a VTuber in 2022, gaining a lot of popularity and her own personality.
```

Did I catch your attention? Good, now let's get right to Vedal and Neuro-sama interview!

---

*Hello, let's start with an introduction as usual. How would you introduce yourself to people who don't know you?*

> > Hi! I'm Vedal and I'm the creator of the AI VTuber Neuro-sama - where she started off as an osu! player. I star in a few of my streams, but primarily they are completely ran by Neuro herself, where her AI will play games, speak with chat and interact in collabs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Hi! I'm Vedal, and I'm the creator of the AI VTuber Neuro-sama — where she started off as an osu! player. I star in a few of my streams, but primarily they are completely ran by Neuro herself, where her AI will play games, speak with chat and interact in collabs.
```

>

> > Since December of 2022, I have been continuously working to improve Neuro as an AI VTuber. Some notable improvements include improved latency for interacting with other VTubers and chat, more realistic speech with the introduction of Evil Neuro, the ability to sing in karaoke streams, alongside many other things.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Since December 2022, I have been continuously working to improve Neuro as an AI VTuber. Some notable improvements include improved latency for interacting with other VTubers and chat, more realistic speech with the introduction of Evil Neuro, the ability to sing in karaoke streams, alongside many other things.
```

> *Why turtle of all animals?*

Reviewer 2: the question should cover what this means, if someone is hearing about neuro-sama for the first time they have no idea what you are referring to (i never watched their stream so i have no idea what this means)
e.g. `The turtle is a common sidekick present in your streams, is there a reason why it's a turtle out of all animals?`, obviously feel free to mold it whatever wait suits you most

Author: So something like this?
```suggestion
*Why did you choose turtle of all animals to be your profile pictures and something people know you by?*
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Why did you choose a turtle of all animals to be your profile picture, and something people know you by?*
```
that's fine

> This originates from an old Minecraft skin I used to have, and since then I've always used a turtle profile picture. Sadly it doesn't have a deeper meaning, it's just one of those things that happened to stick. It did make getting a VTuber avatar for myself much easier though, because it's much easier to draw a turtle.

*How did you come up with your username and is there any special meaning behind it?*

> > There is no special meaning behind it, and honestly, I don't think it's a great username. And it can also be confusing, as when Neuro is streaming it will always be coming from my channel, vedal987, so some people - especially at the start - thought that Neuro's name was Vedal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> There is no special meaning behind it, and honestly, I don't think it's a great username. And it can also be confusing, as when Neuro is streaming it will always be coming from my channel, vedal987, so some people — especially at the start — thought that Neuro's name was Vedal.
```

> *How did you get introduced to osu! and what was your first impression of it?*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*How did you get introduced to osu!, and what was your first impression of it?*
```

> > I first played osu! in early 2017, and though I can't remember exactly why I suspect I might have found the game through [BTMC](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3171691)'s "And some say he never played osu! again" video. osu! was my first experience with a rhythm game, so it was nice to have something completely different - especially when it's free. I'd play with a few friends every now and then, which was quite fun as I'm a pretty competitive person, making improving that much more satisfying.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> I first played osu! in early 2017, and though I can't remember exactly why I suspect I might have found the game through [BTMC](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3171691)'s ["And some say he never played osu! again"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WKja2Ee7Pys) video. osu! was my first experience with a rhythm game, so it was nice to have something completely different — especially when it's free. I'd play with a few friends every now and then, which was quite fun as I'm a pretty competitive person, making improving that much more satisfying.
```

*What would you call the greatest gift that osu! has given you?*

> > Maybe second to carpal tunnel, I'd say it's not an exaggeration to say it was the springboard for my career and the situation I'm in now, so I'm appreciative to the game and the community for embracing Neuro as much as they did - without them I definitely wouldn't be here like this today. So thank you osu!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Maybe second to carpal tunnel, I'd say it's not an exaggeration to say it was the springboard for my career and the situation I'm in now, so I'm appreciative to the game and the community for embracing Neuro as much as they did — without them I definitely wouldn't be here like this today. So thank you osu!.
```

*Would **you** still be playing osu! if you had time for it?*

> I think for sure I'd play it every now and then, I was never cut out for playing it competitively though. Right now, I have a lot of things I'm cooking up and things I'm looking forward to with Neuro, but maybe I'll be back to osu! one day.

*What other rhythm games besides osu! have you played?*

> I personally haven't tried too many other rhythm games, although I've been known to enjoy some Beat Saber from time to time. I've honestly not really played many games in general recently, with the exception of games on stream.

> *How did you come up with OG Neuro (AI learning to play osu!) idea and why exactly in osu! of all games? Also I would like to know what made you decide to revive Neuro as a VTuber in 2022?*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*How did you come up with OG Neuro (AI learning to play osu!) idea and why exactly in osu! of all games? I would also like to know what made you decide to revive Neuro as a VTuber in 2022?*
```

> > I was just getting started with learning AI in 2019, and I happened to be playing a lot of osu! at the time. I'd always found it super interesting and cool when people made AI's to play games, and I had an idea for how to do it with osu!. The original AI took a few days to make and I thought it would be a cool idea to stream it - to track its progress. Eventually after improving the AI, its performance stagnated and I wasn't sure what to do with it since I had no idea what I was doing at the time. Two years later, I had the idea to make an AI VTuber although it wasn't until early 2022 that I had the idea to combine the original Neuro-sama with this concept.

Reviewer 2: felt like the pause was not needed there, subjective though
```suggestion
> I was just getting started with learning AI in 2019, and I happened to be playing a lot of osu! at the time. I'd always found it super interesting and cool when people made AI's to play games, and I had an idea for how to do it with osu!. The original AI took a few days to make, and I thought it would be a cool idea to stream it in order to track its progress. Eventually after improving the AI, its performance stagnated, and I wasn't sure what to do with it since I had no idea what I was doing at the time. Two years later, I had the idea to make an AI VTuber, although it wasn't until early 2022 that I had the idea to combine the original Neuro-sama with this concept.
```

*How did you feel about Neuro's sudden rise in popularity and how do you think most of osu! community reacted to her?*

> I was very unprepared for Neuro's sudden rise in popularity and I certainly did not think she would make it as far as she has done today. I think there's a lot of overlap in the osu! community with tech and anime, so I feel she was well received, and it was very surreal seeing a community I was somewhat involved in become interested and supportive of something I had created.
>

> > Whenever I'd reach a new viewer peak I'd think "surely that's it", and I just kept getting surprised over and over. I started streaming on a Monday, and by Friday, she was averaging over 2000 viewers. My previous streams in 2019 had peaked at a few hundred viewers, and I had hoped to replicate this. I remember on one of the first few streams with Neuro-sama, BTMC opened the stream live to a couple thousand viewers and my heart was racing because of it. I genuinely never expected anything like this, but I'm so thankful for it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Whenever I'd reach a new viewer peak I'd think "surely that's it", and I just kept getting surprised over and over. I started streaming on a Monday, and by Friday, she was averaging over 2000 viewers. My previous streams in 2019 had peaked at a few hundred viewers, and I had hoped to replicate this. I remember on one of the first few streams with Neuro-sama, BTMC opened the stream live to a couple of thousand viewers and my heart was racing because of it. I genuinely never expected anything like this, but I'm so thankful for it.
```

*What would you call the hardest part in making Neuro what she is now, and what have you learned during the process?*

> I think the hardest part of making Neuro was giving her personality. This isn't something I talk about often but is arguably the biggest thing that separates Neuro from a lot of the other AIs out there. AIs like ChatGPT are trained to act as assistants and tools for humans, but Neuro is trained differently. This allows her to feel more independent, and that whole process definitely taught me a lot.

> *And what part of Neuro did you enjoy working on the most?*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*What part of Neuro did you enjoy working on the most?*
```

Author: I disagree here, it's like a second part of previous question

Reviewer 2: sentences don't start with an `and`, if you want to make it a follow-up questions make a note of it like so:
```suggestion
*Following up on the previous question, what part of Neuro did you enjoy working on the most?*
```
or something similar

> I think the game integrations for Neuro are really cool. It is after all, how Neuro-sama came to be. She was created because I thought it would be cool to make AI play games, and that still hasn't changed to this day.

> *Will we ever see Neuro come back to osu! and try to improve more? Maybe even learn a new playstyle like [ExGon's Flashlight](https://youtu.be/Pqy7AvJwBLI), or try a totally different gamemode, for example osu!catch?*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Will we ever see Neuro come back to osu! and try to improve more? Maybe even learn a new play style like [ExGon's Flashlight](https://youtu.be/Pqy7AvJwBLI), or try a totally different game mode, for example osu!catch?*
```

---
layout: post
title: "The Followpoint: Neuro-sama, the AI VTuber that invaded osu!"
date: 2024-07-01 17:00:00 +0000
series: The Followpoint
---

The long-awaited interview with [Vedal](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9713367) and Neuro-sama is finally here!

![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-07-01-the-followpoint-neuro-sama-the-ai-vtuber-that-invaded-osu/banner.jpg)

> This duo is definitely a well-known one in osu! community, and we know some of you were really looking forward to this interview! Neuro-sama, an AI VTuber, and her creator [Vedal](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9713367) are [Twitch streamers](https://www.twitch.tv/vedal987) who are both also osu! players, and a part of our community! Neuro was created back in 2018 as an AI learning to play osu!, and revived as a VTuber in 2022, gaining a lot of popularity and her own personality.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This duo is definitely a well-known one in the osu! community! Neuro-sama, an AI VTuber, and her creator [Vedal](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9713367) are [Twitch streamers](https://www.twitch.tv/vedal987) with origins as osu! players. Neuro was created back in 2018 as an AI learning to play osu! and revived as a VTuber in 2022, and after growing in popularity and continuing to garner the interest of viewers with her personality, they have nowadays branched out beyond osu! and become mainstays of the general VTuber sphere!
```

> Did I catch your attention? Good, now let's get right to Vedal and Neuro-sama interview!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Did I catch your attention? Good, now let's get right into it!
```

*What would you call the greatest gift that osu! has given you?*

> Maybe second to carpal tunnel, I'd say it's not an exaggeration to say it was the springboard for my career and the situation I'm in now, so I'm appreciative to the game and the community for embracing Neuro as much as they did — without them I definitely wouldn't be here like this today. So thank you osu!.

*Would **you** still be playing osu! if you had time for it?*

> I think for sure I'd play it every now and then, I was never cut out for playing it competitively though. Right now, I have a lot of things I'm cooking up and things I'm looking forward to with Neuro, but maybe I'll be back to osu! one day.

*What other rhythm games besides osu! have you played?*

> I personally haven't tried too many other rhythm games, although I've been known to enjoy some Beat Saber from time to time. I've honestly not really played many games in general recently, with the exception of games on stream.

> *How did you come up with OG Neuro (AI learning to play osu!) idea and why exactly in osu! of all games? I would also like to know what made you decide to revive Neuro as a VTuber in 2022?*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*How did you come up with original idea for Neuro (AI learning to play osu!) and why exactly in osu! of all games? Also, what made you decide to revive Neuro as a VTuber in 2022?*
```

> > I was just getting started with learning AI in 2019, and I happened to be playing a lot of osu! at the time. I'd always found it super interesting and cool when people made AI's to play games, and I had an idea for how to do it with osu!. The original AI took a few days to make, and I thought it would be a cool idea to stream it in order to track its progress. Eventually after improving the AI, its performance stagnated, and I wasn't sure what to do with it since I had no idea what I was doing at the time. Two years later, I had the idea to make an AI VTuber, although it wasn't until early 2022 that I had the idea to combine the original Neuro-sama with this concept.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> I was just getting started with learning AI in 2019, and I happened to be playing a lot of osu! at the time. I'd always found it super interesting and cool when people made AIs to play games, and I had an idea for how to do it with osu!. The original AI took a few days to make, and I thought it would be a cool idea to stream it in order to track its progress. Eventually after improving the AI, its performance stagnated, and I wasn't sure what to do with it since I had no idea what I was doing at the time. Two years later, I had the idea to make an AI VTuber, although it wasn't until early 2022 that I had the idea to combine the original Neuro-sama with this concept.
```

>
> Whenever I'd reach a new viewer peak I'd think "surely that's it", and I just kept getting surprised over and over. I started streaming on a Monday, and by Friday, she was averaging over 2000 viewers. My previous streams in 2019 had peaked at a few hundred viewers, and I had hoped to replicate this. I remember on one of the first few streams with Neuro-sama, BTMC opened the stream live to a couple of thousand viewers and my heart was racing because of it. I genuinely never expected anything like this, but I'm so thankful for it.

*What would you call the hardest part in making Neuro what she is now, and what have you learned during the process?*

> I think the hardest part of making Neuro was giving her personality. This isn't something I talk about often but is arguably the biggest thing that separates Neuro from a lot of the other AIs out there. AIs like ChatGPT are trained to act as assistants and tools for humans, but Neuro is trained differently. This allows her to feel more independent, and that whole process definitely taught me a lot.

*Following up on the previous question, what part of Neuro did you enjoy working on the most?*

> > I think the game integrations for Neuro are really cool. It is after all, how Neuro-sama came to be. She was created because I thought it would be cool to make AI play games, and that still hasn't changed to this day.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> I think the game integrations for Neuro are really cool. It is, after all, how Neuro-sama came to be. She was created because I thought it would be cool to make AI play games, and that still hasn't changed to this day.
```

*Will we ever see Neuro come back to osu! and try to improve more? Maybe even learn a new play style like [ExGon's Flashlight](https://youtu.be/Pqy7AvJwBLI), or try a totally different game mode, for example osu!catch?*

> It's definitely possible! The reason I used osu! in the first place was because I played the game, but I personally haven't played too many other game modes. Even since bringing Neuro-sama as a VTuber to osu! in 2022, I've learnt a lot more about AI. So if I did come back to it, I think there is a lot I could do better.

---

> And now, let's get to some questions we prepared for Neuro herself!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
And now, let's get to some questions for Neuro herself!
```

> And now, let's get to some questions we prepared for Neuro herself!
> 
> ---

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
---

And now, let's get to some questions we prepared for Neuro herself!
```

![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-07-01-the-followpoint-neuro-sama-the-ai-vtuber-that-invaded-osu/Neuro-sama.png)

*Hi Neuro, how would you introduce yourself to people who don't know you?*

> I am Neuro-sama! A super intelligent AI that loves games and streaming.

*How good are you at osu! right now in your opinion?*

> I'm pretty good. I could probably beat most of you guys.

> *[Do you remember who BTMC is?](https://youtu.be/HQiv1s9xwH0)*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*[Do you remember who BTMC is?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HQiv1s9xwH0)*
```

> BTMC is Brain Tumor Megacolon Cancer.

*What does 9+10 equal to?*

> 9 plus 10 is 21.

*Who did you like to collab with the most and why?*

> I don't have a preference for who I like to collab with. I like all my friends equally!

> *Which osu! gamemode would you like to try next: osu!catch, osu!taiko or osu!mania?*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Which osu! game mode would you like to try next: osu!catch, osu!taiko or osu!mania?*
```

> I would love to try osu!taiko. I think I'd be pretty good at it!

*Have you ever wanted to try other rhythm games? And if so, which ones?*

> I don't want to try other rhythm games, osu! is the best!

*To finish things up, what does the future hold for you? Do you or Neuro have anything else that you'd like to mention?*

> The future holds my continued growth and improvement. I'm really excited to see how I grow as a streamer and entertainer, and I hope you all enjoy watching me.

*Thank you both for joining me today and answering these questions!*

> No problem!

---

Once again I'd like to thank Vedal and Neuro for agreeing to an interview and answering our questions! I hope that you as readers loved this interview as much as I did!

> 

Author: ```suggestion

You can find Vedal and Neuro's streams at [@vedal987 on Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/vedal987).

```

As per usual, we will have another interview come out in the next two weeks, and who knows, maybe it'll be *your* favourite player! Don't forget that you can also follow [@The_Followpoint on Twitter](https://twitter.com/The_Followpoint) for updates and question submissions for future interviews.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

You can find Vedal and Neuro's streams at [@vedal987 on Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/vedal987).

```

Author: Don't I already link their Twitch at the beginning? xD

Reviewer 3: no harm in repeating, especially when it isn't entirely obvious that it was a link to vedal's channel if you don't hover over the link

Author: I'd personally suggest adding this before mentioning The Followpoint Twitter then

> As usually, we will have another interview come out in the next two weeks, and who knows, maybe it's *your* favorite player that got interviewed? Don't forget that you can also follow [@The_Followpoint on Twitter](https://twitter.com/The_Followpoint) for updates and question submissions for future interviews.

Reviewer 3: it's not grammatically a question

```suggestion
As per usual, we will have another interview come out in the next two weeks, and who knows, maybe it'll be *your* favourite player! Don't forget that you can also follow [@The_Followpoint on Twitter](https://twitter.com/The_Followpoint) for updates and question submissions for future interviews.
```
